# MIST4610Project2
## Team Name and Members:
  **Group 5:**
  1) Olivia Lucas
  2) Davis Williams 
  3) Baye Wilson, [@baye-wilson](https://github.com/baye-wilson/MIST4610Project2.git)
  4) Franco Plathottathil
## Description of Dataset:
The dataset, derived from the CDC, describes the sales of liquor, wines, beers, and various supplies from the years 2019 to 2020. The 9 columns provided are: year, month, supplier, item description, item type, retail sales, retail transfers, and warehouse sales. Each sale is quantified by case, with each sale being contextualized by the month in which it was sold.  The data houses 342 unique suppliers as well as 26,822 unique products. 
## Two Questions and Importance:
1) How do retail sales of various alcohols compare from 2019 to 2020? What has the largest and smallest gap? Based on this data, what can we determine the impact of alcohol sales are pre-covid shelter in place versus during covid shelter in place.
2) How do retail sales compare to warehouse sales for each year? Can we infer that some alcohol had higher anticipated retail sales than waas actualized? Which alcohols had the highest discrepencies in this area?
## Manipulations Applied to Dataset:
Firstly, we consolidated our data to only include the years 2019 and 2020- the original data set included many years that did not seem relevant to our scope of the project. Then, because the data for the year 2020 only includes months 1-9 (Janurary to September), and the year 2019 includes months 1-11 (Janurary to November), we decided to omit the last two months of the data from 2019 to make the data match more evenly. Additionally, we decicided to omit any rows with a null value in the supplier column to preserve the accuracy of the data. We manipulated the data in Microsoft Excel, filtering each column using the "data" page in the Excel pages. 
## Analysis and Results:
### SQL Code:
### Supporting Visualizations:
### Analysis Generated by Snowflake:
**Link to Snowflake dashboard:**
